adding ruby quickstart guide (#69)
Basis-Theory/basistheory-integration-guides: collections/guides/quickstarts/quickstart_ruby.md

---
layout: default
title: Quickstart with Ruby
permalink: /getting_started/quickstart_with_ruby/
categories: quickstart

> nav_order: 1

Reviewer: Does nav_order need to be unique? Node.js and Ruby quickstarts have the same `nav_order: 1`.

If you are already familiar with Basis Theory and our platform in general, our guide on [How to send Token data via HTTP](https://guides.basistheory.com/guides/use-token-data-in-http-requests/) or [Collecting payments with Elements](https://guides.basistheory.com/guides/collect-atomic-cards-with-elements/) may be a better place to start.

## Step 1: Get your Ruby environment ready

### Step 1.1: Ensure you have Ruby installed

Completing this tutorial will require you to have Ruby installed on your local system or have an environment you can run your script in. If you’re looking for help getting Ruby installed for your system — check out their guide on [installing](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/installation/).

### Step 1.2: Create a Ruby script
To start, you’ll need a new Ruby file. Use the following commands (or however you create files) to create a file called `basistheory.rb`:

```bash
//Mac or Linux
touch basistheory.rb

//Windows
type nul > basistheory.rb
```

### Step 2: Import needed dependencies

> The simplest form of securing data with Basis Theory is through our API with a JSON body. In Ruby, this requires a few different libraries to make an API call. At the top of your file, you’ll import the following dependencies:

Author: ```suggestion
The simplest form of securing data with Basis Theory is through our API with a JSON body. In Ruby, you can start with just an HTTP client library, for this example we use the `uri`, `net/http`, and `json` libraries to make an API call. At the top of your file, you’ll import the following dependencies:
```

```ruby
require 'uri'
require 'net/http'
require 'json'
```

## Step 3: Create a new Application in your Basis Theory Account

If you don’t already have a Basis Theory account and your first Tenant, create one [here](https://portal.basistheory.com/register).

Within your Basis Theory account, create a new Application. To create a new application, head to our portal [here](https://portal.basistheory.com/applications/create) — this Application’s API Key will enable you to authenticate with the Basis Theory platform and create Tokens within your Tenant.

### 3.1 Enter an Application Name
This name allows you to identify this application in the future — for this tutorial enter “Ruby Quickstart”.

<img src="/assets/images/getting_started/application_name_ruby.png" />

### 3.2 Select Server-to-Server Application Type

> The Server-to-Server Application Type enables server-side applications to integrate with the Basis theory Platforms directly.

Author: ```suggestion
The Server-to-Server Application Type enables server-side applications to integrate with the Basis Theory platform directly.
```

<img src="/assets/images/getting_started/application_type.png" />

### 3.3 Select Permissions

> Select `token:general:create` and `token:general:read` [permissions](https://docs.basistheory.com/api-reference/#permissions-permission-object) with the default “Low Impact”. These two permissions allow your Application to create a new Token and read the value back when you need to access it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select `token:general:create` and `token:general:read` [permissions](https://docs.basistheory.com/api-reference/#permissions-permission-object) with the default “High Impact”. These two permissions allow your Application to create a new Token and read the value back when you need to access it.
```

<img src="/assets/images/getting_started/application_permissions.png" />

### 3.4 Copy your API key
Keep this API key safe for later. We will use it in the next step to create your first Token.

<img src="/assets/images/getting_started/application_api_key.png" />

## Step 4: Create a Token to secure a string

> Below we are making an HTTP POST to our  [Basis Theory Create a Token API](https://docs.basistheory.com/api-reference/#tokens-create-token), we will send a Token type of `token` ([find out more about our Tokens here](https://guides.basistheory.com/concepts/what-are-tokens/)) with a string of “foo”.

Author: ```suggestion
To create a token, we need to send an HTTP POST request to the [`/tokens`](https://docs.basistheory.com/api-reference/#tokens-create-token) endpoint. In this guide, we will be using the `token` Token Type (you can read more about Tokens [here](https://guides.basistheory.com/concepts/what-are-tokens/)).
```

> Update the `BT-API-KEY` header with the API Key you created in Step 2:

Author: ```suggestion
Update the `BT-API-KEY` header with the API Key you created in Step 3:
```

```ruby
#Create a new Token
res = Net::HTTP.post URI('https://api.basistheory.com/tokens'),
               { "type" => "token", "data" => "foo" }.to_json,
               "Content-Type" => "application/json",
               "BT-API-KEY" => "<! ENTER YOUR API KEY HERE !>"

#Parse Token response into Ruby object
token = JSON.parse(res.body)

#Token response
puts JSON.pretty_generate(token)
```

## Step 5: Run your script to create a new Token

> Before moving on, test our script to this point. Run the following command in the directory you created your script:

Author: ```suggestion
To create a token, run the following command in the directory you created your script:
```

```bash
ruby basistheory.rb
```

You will see a response similar to:
```bash
> Create a Token:
{
  "id": "0a5767fd-e60a-4d73-bd6e-74b4f1e022df",
  "tenant_id": "71b86f56-e2e4-494c-b4f2-de8f38d1aee1",
  "type": "token",
  "privacy": {
    "classification": "general",
    "impact_level": "high",
    "restriction_policy": "redact"
  },
  "created_by": "69f12e84-4501-41e7-8f51-a74b307d7dc5",
  "created_at": "2022-01-22T15:13:14.3187199+00:00"
}
```

🎉🎉🎉 You’ve created a token 🎉🎉🎉

## Step 6: Read back the raw value from Basis Theory

> With our value safely stored in a Token, let’s read that value back to our system. To do this, we will make an HTTP GET request to the [Basis Theory Get a Token API](https://docs.basistheory.com/api-reference/#tokens-get-a-token) and print the request’s response and raw string value.

Author: ```suggestion
With our value safely stored in a Token, let’s read that value back to our system. To do this, we will make an HTTP GET request to the [Basis Theory Get a Token API](https://docs.basistheory.com/api-reference/#tokens-get-a-token) endpoint and print the response's raw string value.
```

> We are using the `token["id"]` from the previous Token we created to inject the `id` into the Get a token request. Update the `BT-API-KEY` header with the API Key you created in Step 2:

Author: ```suggestion
We are using the `token["id"]` from the previous Token we created to inject the `id` into the Get a token request. Update the `BT-API-KEY` header with the API Key you created in Step 3:
```

```ruby
#Read the Token value back form Basis Theory
get_token_res = Net::HTTP.get URI("https://api.basistheory.com/tokens/#{token['id']}"),
               "Content-Type" => "application/json",
               "BT-API-KEY" => "<! ENTER YOUR API KEY HERE !>"

#Parse Token response into Ruby object
raw_value = JSON.parse(get_token_res)

#Display raw Token response
puts JSON.pretty_generate(raw_value)

#Display raw secured value
puts raw_value["data"]
```

## Step 7: Run the script
Test the entire tutorial out by running the script:
```bash
ruby basistheory.rb
```

> 🎉🎉🎉 You’ve successfully created a Token for your data and read it back! 🎉🎉🎉

Author: ```suggestion
🎉🎉🎉 You’ve successfully created a Token for your data and read it back: 🎉🎉🎉
```

> 🎉🎉🎉 You’ve successfully created a Token for your data and read it back: 🎉🎉🎉

Reviewer: ```suggestion
🎉🎉🎉 You’ve successfully created a Token for your data and read it back 🎉🎉🎉
```

```ruby
require 'uri'
require 'net/http'
require 'json'

#Create a new Token
res = Net::HTTP.post URI('https://api.basistheory.com/tokens'),
               { "type" => "token", "data" => "foo" }.to_json,
               "Content-Type" => "application/json",
               "BT-API-KEY" => "key_4qUtg83MpoVnDemfJwbzcN"

#Parse Token response into Ruby object
token = JSON.parse(res.body)

#Token response
puts "Create a Token:", JSON.pretty_generate(token)

#Read secured value back form Basis Theory
get_token_res = Net::HTTP.get URI("https://api.basistheory.com/tokens/#{token['id']}"),
               "Content-Type" => "application/json",
               "BT-API-KEY" => "key_4qUtg83MpoVnDemfJwbzcN"

#Parse Token response into Ruby object
raw_value = JSON.parse(get_token_res)

#Display raw Token response
puts "Read your Token:", JSON.pretty_generate(raw_value)

#Display raw secured value
puts "Read your raw value from the Token:", raw_value["data"]
```

## What can I do next?

> Now that you understand the basics, you are ready to learn more about how you can take advantage of your tokenized data with the capabilities of the Basis Theory Platform.

Author: ```suggestion
Now that you understand the basics, you are ready to learn more about how you can better secure sensitive data without sacrificing data usability using the Basis Theory platform.
```
